
2024-09-15 11:19

Tags: [[Leetcode]] | [[Prefix Sum]] | [[Bitmask]] | [[Lookup Table]]


### Overview
This problem wants us to return the size of the longest substring in `s` containing each vowel an even number of times. So, each occurance of 'a', 'e', 'i', 'o', 'u' must be even.

### Strategy
On initial inspection, this would appear as a [[Sliding Window]] problem. But this approach would be difficult because we can't tell when we would want to shift our left pointer because it would need to be based on future counts of the left pointers value which we cannot know beforehand. (And it will also depend on potential vowels we will see later in the string).

If we were extremely clever, we would notice that this is similar to a [[Prefix Sum]] problem because at each index, our vowel count has a state, where each vowel count is either `even` or `odd`.

So, if we keep a running [[Prefix Sum]] of all the vowel parity, we can use a lookup table to determine if we have seen our current state (bitmask) before. If we have seen the current bitmask state before, that tells us that we have found a substring that has vowels all an even number of times.

### Explanation
We can use a helper function `convert_to_bitmask` to take an array of booleans, and return a bitmask which we can store in our lookup table.

Looping thru the string `s`, we will determine if a character is a vowel, and if it is, flip the vowel bit in our `is_odd` array, convert it to a bitmask, and update our lookup table. 

If we have seen this bitmask before, (the parity state), we can check to see if this is the longest substring.

### Code
```python
    def findTheLongestSubstring(self, s: str) -> int:
        is_odd = [False] * 5
        
        def convert_to_bitmask(arr):
            r = 0
            for x in arr:
                r *= 2
                if x:
                    r += 1
            return r
        
        
        best = 0
        lookup = {}
        lookup[convert_to_bitmask(is_odd)] = 0
        
        vowels = "aeiou"
        
        for i, x in enumerate(s):
            if x in vowels:
                index = vowels.find(x)
                is_odd[index] = not is_odd[index]
                
            mask = convert_to_bitmask(is_odd)

            if mask in lookup:
                best = max(best, i + 1 - lookup[mask])
            else:
                lookup[mask] = i + 1
                    
        return best
                
```

### Additional Notes
If this solution does not make sense, review [[Prefix Sum]] to understand that a subarray(i, j) can be derived by subtracting two subarrays -> subarray(j) - subarray(i)

### References
[Leetcode Link](https://leetcode.com/problems/find-the-longest-substring-containing-vowels-in-even-counts/)

