
Tags: [[Leetcode]] | [[Greedy]] | [[Stack]]


### Overview
Given a string `s`, we need to continuously remove substrings "ab" or "ba" which correspond to a value of x and y respectively. 

In other words, we will remove either "ab" to increase our total score by x or remove "ba" to increase our total score by y. We need to return the maximum total after repeating this as many times as possible.

### Strategy
We notice that this question is essentially asking us to be greedy and selectively remove the substrings in an optimal way to create the maximum possible total. We can see that the order of substring removal does matter, and removing a substring can create another substring.

#### Example: `baba`, x = 1, y = 3

removing "ab" -> `ba`
ab = +1
ba = +3
total = 4

removing "ba" -> `ba`
ba = +3 + 3
total = 6


### Explanation
If we are clever, we notice that we will always want to create the pairs that will produce the highest total ([[Greedy]]).

We can use a stack to keep track of the previously seen characters, and pop when we create a new pair.

Simply iterate through the string, keeping the processed characters on the stack, and create the pairs when they are available. Start with the pair, x or y, which has the higher value, and then process the new string with the pair with the lower value. This will create the optimal solution.

### Code
```python
class Solution:
    def maximumGain(self, s: str, x: int, y: int) -> int:
        def remove_pair(pair, score):
            nonlocal s

            stack = []
            total = 0
            for c in s:
                if stack and stack[-1] + c == pair:
                    stack.pop()
                    total += score
                else:
                    stack.append(c)
                    
            s = "".join(stack)
            return total

        pair = "ab" if x > y else "ba"
        ans = 0
        ans += remove_pair(pair, max(x, y))
        ans += remove_pair(pair[::-1], min(x, y))
        return ans

```

### References
[Leetcode Link](https://leetcode.com/problems/maximum-score-from-removing-substrings/?envType=daily-question&envId=2024-07-12)

