
2024-08-08 14:54

Tags: [[Leetcode]] | [[Simulation]] | [[Matrix]]


### Overview
One important observation for this problem is to notice that we are continuously moving forward, and choosing to turn right as soon as we see a tile on our right hand side that has not been visited yet. This fact allows us to have a very concise solution in the code, where we will take a right turn every time it is available; otherwise, keep walking straight.

### Strategy
We do not need to do any special calculations for out of bounds, as long as we only add tiles to the solution set that are within the original grid. In other words, we will handle out of bounds tiles the same as any other position, but we will only add tiles within the bounds of the grid to our solution set. 

We will start at the given `rStart` and `cStart` positions, and only keep track of the `x` and `y` coordinates of our current position. We will take right turns when they become available, adding tiles that are within bounds to our answer set `ans`.

Once the number of visited positions equals the total number of valid tiles, return `ans`.

### Detail
One last clever detail, we will keep track of our current direction by incrementing the `d` counter, and modding it by the total number of directions (4). This will determine what is the next direction we should face. If the tile in that direction is unvisited, choose this next direction. 

This requires we places our directions in `directions` array in the following order:  [right, down, left, right] 

### Code
```python
class Solution:
    def spiralMatrixIII(self, R: int, C: int, rStart: int, cStart: int) -> List[List[int]]:
        # directions = [right, down, left, right]
        directions = [(0,1),(1,0),(0,-1),(-1,0)] 

        seen = set()
        x, y = rStart, cStart
        ans = [[x, y]]
        d = 0
        seen.add((x, y))

        while len(seen) < R * C:
            dx, dy = directions[d]
            nx, ny = x + dx, y + dy

            if nx in range(R) and ny in range(C):
                ans.append((nx, ny))
                seen.add((nx, ny))
            x, y = nx, ny

            # is the cell to the right taken?
            rd = (d + 1) % 4
            dx, dy = directions[rd]
            nx, ny = x + dx, y + dy

            if (nx, ny) not in seen:
                d = rd
        
        return ans
```

### References
[Leetcode Link](https://leetcode.com/problems/spiral-matrix-iii/description/?envType=daily-question&envId=2024-08-08)

